we're now into the last few days of
February 2020 at this moment at this
stage in the unfolding of history it
definitely seems that the political
career of Elizabeth Warren is over
whereas just a few short months ago she
seemed to have pretty good odds of
becoming the president United States her
odds were about as good as Bernie
Sanders there was a time a few years
before that when Bernie Sanders himself
actively promoted Elizabeth Warren as a
possible candidate for president United
States and I think there's no doubt that
many people in the general public
understood what Elizabeth Warren
represented as being the same slate of
policy positions as Bernie Sanders with
a few select bullet points subtracted a
few exceptions to the rule substituted
there's no doubt that Elizabeth Warren
was able to rise to such prominence as
something less than Bernie Sanders
paradoxically enough you can say that
Bernie Sanders cast a huge shadow and
then Elizabeth Warren's campaign was
able to really gleam it was able to
shine out in this shadow because a lot
of people frankly were apprehensive that
Bernie Sanders would bankrupt the United
States of America a lot of people were
apprehensive that Bernie Sanders claimed
that he would completely decimate the
Armed Forces completely decimate of
foreign policy positions in Iraq
Afghanistan Syria around the world would
be you know would have disastrous
consequences for the balance of power on
planet earth and Elizabeth Warren did
indeed offer many of the same Vica
promises as Bernie Sanders but let's we
could subtract away the radicalism of
Bernie Sanders on foreign policy we
Bernie Sanders on you know DIF
disassembling the military shall we say
and we could we could put in a few sort
of cautious words that she she wasn't as
as game to bankrupt
States in terms of profligate spending
on new social programs new ecological
and health care and education and what
have you there was a little bit of
hesitancy there now in terms of optics
as I've mentioned many times in some
ways what Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth
Warren were selling was the same product
but with a very significant difference
in packaging because in terms of
domestic policy Bernie Sanders openly
calls his product socialism whereas you
may say Elizabeth Warren was packaging
her version of much the same domestic
policies as compassionate capitalism but
she would use the c-word she would say
she was a capitalist to her bones I
think it's inevitable that when people
look back at this period of time when
they look back in the few months when
Elizabeth Warren went from being a major
contender for president estates to being
totally discredited and discarded they
will probably remember a series of
isolated statements she made isolated
gaffes isolated ridiculous things and
that's a shame because I think there is
something more meaningful here to
reflect on both in terms of the limited
appeal of Bernie Sanders and in terms of
understanding what was the appeal of
Elizabeth Warren now very much in the
past tense so I was much more familiar
with Bernie Sanders than Elizabeth
Warren let's say 12 months ago now
Elizabeth Warren was a pretty marginal
fingered figure in American politics
she had never withstood the same level
of scrutiny that Bernie Sanders had
withstood back in the year 2016
um you know again many people know
Bernie's current political platform
because he published a best-selling book
explaining it
whereas Elizabeth Warren had a series of
rather slapdash amateurish policy
statements put on the Internet
you could say as blog entries and have
to say I regarded that relatively
positively I thought Oh
it didn't seem that a committee of
experts had written those policy
statements her tagline was I have a plan
for that
her set of plans they really did seem to
be things that she had written herself
you know maybe sitting around the
kitchen table and talking to a couple of
friends or her husband or something
about them before posting them but they
really did have the kind of handmade
amateurish quality to them that I felt
kind of reflected well on her character
like okay this is somebody who isn't
afraid to just kind of set down her
thoughts on a whole bunch of different
areas of you know domestic political and
economic policy and as imperfect as it
may be put that forward on the record to
be criticized and let's let's be real
here
they weren't criticized there wasn't a
lot of scrutiny directed towards
Elizabeth Warren she was able to come to
so much prominence because she was
thought of as representing the same list
of policies of Bernie Sanders and less
it was like UK so you think of what
Bernie Sanders represents then you
subtract a few key points and people for
many many months of these debates they
were not really scrutinizing Elizabeth
Warren as such on her own terms they
weren't really reading and criticizing
her plans I still this day I've never
once heard anyone in the media really
discussing the content of those plays
and when I was reading them which was a
lot of work I thought wow what she
actually represents in these plans is
very alien from the world of kind of
professional news commentary you know
which tends to just react from minute to
minute two things she happened to say in
debates but didn't didn't seem to be
based on doing that little bit of
reading that little bit of digging now
Elizabeth Warren as a personality
became less and less appealing to the
public as her tactics became more and
more desperate so there's no doubt she
utterly humiliated herself with this
ploy of trying to present Bernie Sanders
as somehow an anti-feminist try to
present Bernie Sanders as opposed to a
woman being
elected president and that moment of her
seeming to utterly lack personal
integrity even if even if the particular
comments being made were trivial or it
was merely grandstanding for the cameras
even if her gaffe was trivial in itself
that became the trigger for an avalanche
of criticism directed at Warren that
really should have happened earlier in
the campaign people on the left wing did
not formerly want to examine what was
wrong in Warren's record now the most
obvious example being her claims about
her ethnicity nobody wanted to sound
like Donald Trump and criticize her for
being a fake Native America and they
faked Indian you know these kinds of
things
nobody wants it's just in in the poet
society of left-wing households it
wasn't something anyone wanted to talk
about anyone to examine with that
triggering event of this ridiculous
attempt to blacken bernie sanders
character and suggests that he is anti
feminists or anti women's rights or
something then that whole discourse
opened up again yes but people also went
back and look at the record of who she
really was and many many issue issues
she lied about her own past being in
fact something of a republican it's
rather more right-wing than anyone
thought was people dug into the archives
dug into her history of different
political involvement before she became
famous or noteworthy or before she
appeared on television talking about
financial corruption and reformed the
banking sector these things that now
define her her public image questions
were asked and digging was done that
should have been done on day one and as
i say this only seemed to happen after
we hit a breaking point now one
interesting thing to know is that the
lies that have discredited Elizabeth
Warren are of a very different character
from the lies that Bernie Sanders leads
on and yes I did just say Bernie Sanders
is a habitual liar
and in a Machiavellian sense it may make
Bernie Sanders a better politician it
may to be fair here let's say something
similar but Elizabeth Warren many people
now complain that Elizabeth Warren
accepts donations from millionaires and
corporations and political action
committees people have complained that
Elizabeth Warren does not maintain the
same standard of moral purity that
Bernie Sanders maintains in terms of who
he will and will not solicit donations
from an engagement fundraiser okay
but in a Machiavellian sense some people
might look at that and think well it
shows that Elizabeth Warren is willing
to fight dirty she's willing to fight
the win and maybe that's an advantage
maybe that is not entirely a
disadvantage okay in the same way I
think there are some people who will
recognize the lies that Bernie Sanders
is telling and say okay maybe this is a
guy who knows how to campaign he knows
how to stay on message and he knows that
making these promises and keeping these
campaign slogans going in the mass media
that that's something quite different
from the merely technical policymaking
analytical realm in which truth rather
comes at a premium
now with Edmonds said Bernie Sanders
lies and lying they do seriously
discredit him in my eyes in my own
judgment I don't have any sympathy for
someone who will stand on stage and say
that wages in the United States of
America
have not increased in the last 40 years
okay that there's been no wage growth in
us it's America and then I hear people
in the left wing of the media repeating
verbatim the same claim and they don't
do what you know Fox News might even do
believe me I have no intellectual
respect for Fox News okay if you think
the problem with America if you think
the unique problem with America is the
lack of wage growth in the last 40 years
why don't you put up a
chart showing that why don't you put up
a chart showing percentage wage growth
year by year and not in isolation
why don't you compare the united states
of america for 40 years to japan over
the last 40 years denmark over the last
40 years any mature western european
economy you know we can't compare the
dead states we're gonna china in the
same period you can't compare it to
cambodia okay how does the united states
America compare to the United Kingdom
alright
the notion especially since say 1990
from 1990 to 2020 the notion that there
has been this terrible paucity of wage
growth and moreover that Bernie Sanders
has to cure for that problem that Bernie
Sanders is gonna solve that you know you
tell me the policy that's that's gonna
solve that in Bernie Sanders arsenal
this is a lie of a sort very different
from what Elizabeth Warren trades in and
I admit I do find Elizabeth Warren's
lies more psychologically disturbing but
the lies told by Bernie Sanders may
indeed be portentous of really grave
problems to come if he comes to power or
even if Bernie Sanders somehow loses
this election I can imagine these lies
still being very influential on the
future of the Democratic Party the
future of United States America frankly
the future of Western democracy and in
other countries around the world I've
read the book by Bernie Sanders it's
right over there on that table so you
know I know his policy positions that
perspective I listened to his lectures I
also watch his carefully crafted public
messages in YouTube videos that are on
his own channel it alarmed me when I saw
him lying really palpable provable lies
in making his argument for the $15 an
hour minimum wage and you know one of
the reasons this is disturbing to me is
why do you have to lie like it's such
easy argument to make it's such an easy
argument to make on the basis of truth
or even just just sympathy just asking
people to sympathize just ask people's
insight just say hey look here's
somebody who works in a coffee shop and
earns only $8 an hour wouldn't the world
be a better place if they earn $12 an
hour or $15 an hour whatever whatever
you want to say mm-hmm
you know the specific claims made and
again you know about the videos this
includes you know carefully edited
quotations from people put together from
interviews in addition to just that the
text of what Bernie Sanders himself
proclaims the claims made about Amazon
the corporation Amazon how much they pay
their employees incredibly misleading
and dishonest and easily debunked I did
before even Jeff Bezos came out to
challenge the numbers Bernie Sanders was
presenting I just googled around and
found guys this doesn't add up what
Bernie Sanders is saying is really
misleading here and intentionally so
there's no way that could be a mistake
and he did it again and again and again
and again it's not something he said
once and then forgot about this is a
major propaganda tool he used what he
was saying about Disney Corporation and
again there's a very easy honest
argument to make that Disney should pay
its employees more but again the when
you get into the specifics of the
message and how he presents it and sure
just to mention one more topping that
was covered specifically on this YouTube
channel the lies he tells on behalf of
the dairy industry what
what does Bernie Sanders have to gain
from lying on behalf of the dairy
industry you know I mean in a sense I
mean if you're lying on behalf of Saudi
Arabia in relation to the war currently
being fought in Yemen which by the way
is a big deal and nobody in the white
Western English TV world seems to want
to pay attention to and if Bernie
Sanders is elected he says he's just
gonna abandon all those foreign policy
entanglements America's and ok you know
whereas Elizabeth Warren doesn't make
such
extreme statements you know it's a
question look okay when Bernie Sanders's
asked vote about foreign policy is he
lying is he lying when you ask Bernie
Sanders the first time this includes in
the debates by the way when he asked the
first time so would you just walk out of
Afghanistan you get a kind of waffling
answer that indicates yes he's just
gonna walk at me answer when you ask a
more specific question and again you've
seen this even in the debates if you can
see this in interviews and so on to a
specific question like well you know um
Donald Trump recently was in
negotiations with the Taliban and many
people faulted him for that and the
negotiations didn't do well and so and
so forth if you were pressed in the
United States would you negotiate with
the Taliban would you hand over control
of Afghanistan to tell them to call the
reply Bernie Sanders gives to this kind
of question to call it a waffle would be
an insult to honest pancakes
hey is Bernie Sanders lying about
military and foreign policy or is he
just making promises you know he can't
keep alright does Bernie Sanders have
the intestinal fortitude to stand by as
the taliban comes and burns down schools
and colleges offering education to women
as the taliban destroys the democracy
the system of elections the american
people put billions of dollars into
we're not debating now whether or not it
would have been wise in the first place
for America to spend those billions of
dollars and kill virgins people the
money was spent people were killed
created democracy created educational
institutions created hospitals and now
do you want to hand back control that to
the Taliban
that's that situation we're in now right
that's why that's why Obama didn't just
walk out of Afghanistan and that's why
Donald Trump didn't just walk out even
though Donald Trump's election promises
basically were that he was just gonna
walk again
in case your memory is too short
remember that it's all drunk amazingly
he was the anti-war candidate cuz you
know Hillary Clinton was so pro war it
was crazy all right
look the type of lies I get from Bernie
Sanders consistently and these include
lies about economics and Social Policy
some of them are the heights but the
United States of America and some of
them are lies about other countries
abroad that he's favorably contrasting
the United States to some of them are
not what lies there just wishful
thinking of such a childlike sort that I
can't imagine Bernie Sanders believes
what he's saying I can't imagine he
thinks you can have a $15 minimum wage
without completely decimating
manufacturing in the night states
America without completely wiping out
industry and agriculture as we know it
without having astounding impact across
the board in the American economy
without more jobs leaving the United
States to go to Mexico to go to China
and so on
very very very very obvious and
inevitable consequences I I do not know
how it's possible for Bernie Sanders to
offer free tuition to everyone in
America in a manner so much more naive
than the the Corbyn government in
England sorry
so Corbin lost the elections I shouldn't
say that the Corbin government but in
when Corbin in United Kingdom was
promising to offer free tuition if you
look at what the promise was it came
with also a total restructuring and
redefinition of how the universities
worked where basically these would cease
to be independent of private for-profit
scam institutions he was going to create
a national education service parallel to
the National Health Service they already
have United Kingdom so you know yeah if
if all of the University Professors are
directly employed by the federal
government in the same sense that all
the soldiers in the
military are employed by the federal
government yes then you can offer free
tuition everyone if you have incredibly
corrupt self-serving multi-billion
dollar for-profit institutions if you
have education starts the way it is now
there are problems with taking an
already incredibly wasteful incredibly
expensive incredibly corrupt system and
then removing the price mechanism from
it it will only get worse and this is
not a long term far-off distant problem
you know what Sanders is proposing there
it either entails many other fundamental
reforms that are indeed socialist in
character like creating a national
education service or immediate total
collapse and failure and wasting of
billions of dollars you know huge huge
huge amount of money as a pointed out
Bernie Sanders continues to vilify Big
Pharma pharmaceutical corporations and
he blames these mysterious corporations
and their conspiracy for why health care
so expensive in America and he compares
the price of health care in America to
the price of health care in France and
Canada he doesn't mention Scotland much
anymore used to in the past Colin is
another example Taiwan is another
example Taiwan has single-payer health
care alright true single-payer health
care until one okay um never mentions
that doctors and nurses are paid
dramatically less in those countries I
have a friend who's in nursing college
right now he's so he's in the process of
becoming a nurse you know there are
levels to being a nurse he already was a
nurse he's becoming a higher level nurse
and his professors there they are all
aware and they have discussed with him
that if Bernie Sanders is elected
medical doctors born less money nurse is
born less money that this is a type of
reform that will negatively impact their
economic position and I thought that was
interesting because when in the past
I've talked about this I got a lot of
stupid hate mail people writing in to me
and saying oh well you should know this
union of nurses supports Bernie Sanders
yeah glad I'm glad to hear that but the
real struggle here is
not gonna be Bernie Sanders against Big
Pharma as soon as it's clear that Bernie
Sanders means lower wages for nurses you
know then his struggle is gonna be with
the nurses union it's gonna be with
nurses and doctors as such and we're not
having that debate now we're not having
that discussion now cuz we're all just
in dreamland where Bernie Sanders gets
to make these promises to a completely
uncritical audience completely
uncritical mass media I mean look the
vast media is critical but in ways that
are irrelevant and meaningless I mean
obviously I mean you know the way the
mass media praises someone like Joe
Biden you know tries to make budda judge
into a credible candidate yes there's a
sense in which Bernie Sanders is
criticized but it is not a substantive
detailed sense in this way of examining
examining the falsehoods in the argument
he's making nor is it looking at the
knock-on implications for the economy as
a whole the society as a whole if you
were elected in four actually to attempt
to bring about the reforms that he's
promising look would the world be a
better place if Bernie Sanders were
president instead of Donald Trump yes
would the world be a better place if
Elizabeth Warren were elected president
instead of Donald Trump yes this is
setting the threshold rather low there
are very worrying signs Bernie Sanders
lies Elizabeth Warren in a very
different way lies they are both
somewhat Machiavellian characters
they're both people of shall we say
finite personal integrity and I am
concerned I remember time when in
England there was all this excitement
over new labour the Labour Party and you
know I should do a book review of it now
there was a hit book does anyone else
remember this
the stakeholder society nobody really
looked into who Tony Blair was they saw
Tony Blair in the shadow of the hard
left wing the Communists frankly he
competed against they saw him in the
shadow of people like Corbin although
Corbin was a young man then you know the
people like that before there's left
they saw Tony Blair in the shadow of the
incredibly unpopular Conservative Party
of the recent past at that time and Tony
Blair seemed like the answer to all our
problems and no one even thought to
question the extent to which Tony Blair
was a religious maniac it's so much that
now it's like the ethnicity of Elizabeth
Warren left-wing people just don't want
to talk about that they just don't want
to talk about the fact that Tony Blair
is the kind of guy who thinks that God
talks to him in prayer and who converted
to Catholicism the minute his prime
ministership ended that he is someone
who is guided by faith and it was really
a faith based politician allegedly on
the left wing there were really serious
warning signs about Tony Blair's
character and you know what it's not the
case that Tony Blair made insane
political decisions on the basis of a
Ouija board or on the basis of having
his answered prayer or having the Virgin
Mary appear to him in a dream it didn't
go that far it didn't there were really
serious warning signs about who Tony
Blair was and what political agenda he
represented even in that book he
published nobody wanted to hear it
nobody wanted to see what was even
written on the page and nobody even
wanted to evaluate that man himself as
such his character let alone his
objectives and whether not achieve them
so on and so forth very often in
politics people choose a politician just
because they want something new and
something different
Bernie Sanders and his peculiar brand of
socialism it's something new
it's something different I'm here to
tell you if you do the reading
if you check his factual claims if you
just google around and check the numbers
if you just think about it for a minute
there are some red flags here there are
in fact some warning signs